README.md, before:

# Notion MCP Server

![notion-mcp-sm](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6c07003c-8455-4636-b298-d60ffdf46cd8)

This project implements an [MCP server](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/) for the [Notion API](https://developers.notion.com/reference/intro). 

![mcp-demo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e3ff90a7-7801-48a9-b807-f7dd47f0d3d6)

### Installation

#### 1. Setting up Integration in Notion:
Go to [https://www.notion.so/profile/integrations](https://www.notion.so/profile/integrations) and create a new **internal** integration or select an existing one.

![Creating a Notion Integration token](docs/images/integrations-creation.png)

While we limit the scope of Notion API's exposed (for example, you will not be able to delete databases via MCP), there is a non-zero risk to workspace data by exposing it to LLMs. Security-conscious users may want to further configure the Integration's _Capabilities_. 

For example, you can create a read-only integration token by giving only "Read content" access from the "Configuration" tab:

![Notion Integration Token Capabilities showing Read content checked](docs/images/integrations-capabilities.png)

#### 2. Connecting content to integration:
Ensure relevant pages and databases are connected to your integration.

To do this, visit the **Access** tab in your internal integration settings. Edit access and select the pages you'd like to use.
![Integration Access tab](docs/images/integration-access.png)

![Edit integration access](docs/images/page-access-edit.png)

Alternatively, you can grant page access individually. You'll need to visit the target page, and click on the 3 dots, and select "Connect to integration". 

![Adding Integration Token to Notion Connections](docs/images/connections.png)

#### 3. Adding MCP config to your client:

##### Using npm:
Add the following to your `.cursor/mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json` (MacOS: `~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`)

```javascript
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notionApi": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@notionhq/notion-mcp-server"],
      "env": {
        "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS": "{\"Authorization\": \"Bearer ntn_****\", \"Notion-Version\": \"2022-06-28\" }"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Using Docker:

There are two options for running the MCP server with Docker:

###### Option 1: Using the official Docker Hub image:

Add the following to your `.cursor/mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```javascript
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notionApi": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "--rm",
        "-i",
        "-e", "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS",
        "mcp/notion"
      ],
      "env": {
        "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS": "{\"Authorization\":\"Bearer ntn_****\",\"Notion-Version\":\"2022-06-28\"}"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This approach:
- Uses the official Docker Hub image
- Properly handles JSON escaping via environment variables
- Provides a more reliable configuration method

###### Option 2: Building the Docker image locally:

You can also build and run the Docker image locally. First, build the Docker image:

```bash
docker-compose build
```

Then, add the following to your `.cursor/mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```javascript
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notionApi": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "--rm",
        "-i",
        "-e",
        "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS={\"Authorization\": \"Bearer ntn_****\", \"Notion-Version\": \"2022-06-28\"}",
        "notion-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Don't forget to replace `ntn_****` with your integration secret. Find it from your integration configuration tab:

![Copying your Integration token from the Configuration tab in the developer portal](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67b44536-5333-49fa-809c-59581bf5370a)


#### Installing via Smithery

[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@makernotion/notion-mcp-server)](https://smithery.ai/server/@makernotion/notion-mcp-server)

To install Notion API Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@makernotion/notion-mcp-server):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @makenotion/notion-mcp-server --client claude
```

### Examples

1. Using the following instruction
```
Comment "Hello MCP" on page "Getting started"
```

AI will correctly plan two API calls, `v1/search` and `v1/comments`, to achieve the task

2. Similarly, the following instruction will result in a new page named "Notion MCP" added to parent page "Development"
```
Add a page titled "Notion MCP" to page "Development"
```

3. You may also reference content ID directly
```
Get the content of page 1a6b35e6e67f802fa7e1d27686f017f2
```

### Development

Build

```
npm run build
```

Execute

```
npx -y --prefix /path/to/local/notion-mcp-server @notionhq/notion-mcp-server
```

Publish

```
npm publish --access public
```

Commit message:

Add note about Notion MCP remote server

README.md, after:

# Notion MCP Server

> [!NOTE] 
> 
> We’ve introduced **Notion MCP** (Beta), a remote MCP server with the following improvements:
> - Easy installation via standard OAuth. No need to fiddle with JSON or API token anymore.
> - Powerful tools tailored to AI agents. These tools are designed with optimized token consumption in mind.
> 
> Learn more and try it out [here](https://notion.notion.site/Beta-Overview-Notion-MCP-206efdeead058060a59bf2c14202bd0a)


![notion-mcp-sm](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6c07003c-8455-4636-b298-d60ffdf46cd8)

This project implements an [MCP server](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/) for the [Notion API](https://developers.notion.com/reference/intro). 

![mcp-demo](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e3ff90a7-7801-48a9-b807-f7dd47f0d3d6)

### Installation

#### 1. Setting up Integration in Notion:
Go to [https://www.notion.so/profile/integrations](https://www.notion.so/profile/integrations) and create a new **internal** integration or select an existing one.

![Creating a Notion Integration token](docs/images/integrations-creation.png)

While we limit the scope of Notion API's exposed (for example, you will not be able to delete databases via MCP), there is a non-zero risk to workspace data by exposing it to LLMs. Security-conscious users may want to further configure the Integration's _Capabilities_. 

For example, you can create a read-only integration token by giving only "Read content" access from the "Configuration" tab:

![Notion Integration Token Capabilities showing Read content checked](docs/images/integrations-capabilities.png)

#### 2. Connecting content to integration:
Ensure relevant pages and databases are connected to your integration.

To do this, visit the **Access** tab in your internal integration settings. Edit access and select the pages you'd like to use.
![Integration Access tab](docs/images/integration-access.png)

![Edit integration access](docs/images/page-access-edit.png)

Alternatively, you can grant page access individually. You'll need to visit the target page, and click on the 3 dots, and select "Connect to integration". 

![Adding Integration Token to Notion Connections](docs/images/connections.png)

#### 3. Adding MCP config to your client:

##### Using npm:
Add the following to your `.cursor/mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json` (MacOS: `~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`)

```javascript
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notionApi": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@notionhq/notion-mcp-server"],
      "env": {
        "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS": "{\"Authorization\": \"Bearer ntn_****\", \"Notion-Version\": \"2022-06-28\" }"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Using Docker:

There are two options for running the MCP server with Docker:

###### Option 1: Using the official Docker Hub image:

Add the following to your `.cursor/mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```javascript
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notionApi": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "--rm",
        "-i",
        "-e", "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS",
        "mcp/notion"
      ],
      "env": {
        "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS": "{\"Authorization\":\"Bearer ntn_****\",\"Notion-Version\":\"2022-06-28\"}"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This approach:
- Uses the official Docker Hub image
- Properly handles JSON escaping via environment variables
- Provides a more reliable configuration method

###### Option 2: Building the Docker image locally:

You can also build and run the Docker image locally. First, build the Docker image:

```bash
docker-compose build
```

Then, add the following to your `.cursor/mcp.json` or `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```javascript
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "notionApi": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "--rm",
        "-i",
        "-e",
        "OPENAPI_MCP_HEADERS={\"Authorization\": \"Bearer ntn_****\", \"Notion-Version\": \"2022-06-28\"}",
        "notion-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Don't forget to replace `ntn_****` with your integration secret. Find it from your integration configuration tab:

![Copying your Integration token from the Configuration tab in the developer portal](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67b44536-5333-49fa-809c-59581bf5370a)


#### Installing via Smithery

[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@makernotion/notion-mcp-server)](https://smithery.ai/server/@makernotion/notion-mcp-server)

To install Notion API Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@makernotion/notion-mcp-server):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @makenotion/notion-mcp-server --client claude
```

### Examples

1. Using the following instruction
```
Comment "Hello MCP" on page "Getting started"
```

AI will correctly plan two API calls, `v1/search` and `v1/comments`, to achieve the task

2. Similarly, the following instruction will result in a new page named "Notion MCP" added to parent page "Development"
```
Add a page titled "Notion MCP" to page "Development"
```

3. You may also reference content ID directly
```
Get the content of page 1a6b35e6e67f802fa7e1d27686f017f2
```

### Development

Build

```
npm run build
```

Execute

```
npx -y --prefix /path/to/local/notion-mcp-server @notionhq/notion-mcp-server
```

Publish

```
npm publish --access public
```
